---
title: "1015 Rhode Island Ave NE"
permalink: /issues/1015ria/
excerpt: "8 market-rate homes and 4 parking spaces"
author_profile: false
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/1015ria/cross-section.png
  overlay_filter: rgba(127, 127, 127, 0.5)
  caption: "[1015 Rhode Island Ave NE](/assets/images/1015ria/cross-section.png)"
categories: active development 5c05
# toc: true
toc_label: "Page Contents"
toc_icon: "bullseye"
toc_sticky: true
last_modified_at: 2023-07-16T21:54:09
---
<div id="development-map" class="map-container"></div>
This project is in 5C05 on the bounding roadway of 5B04; both ANCs 5C and 5B have automatic party status and great weight.
{: .notice--warning}

## tl;dr
- This is a proposed 8-home building with 4 parking spaces
- There is currently a detached home with no parking spaces on the site
- Due to procedural shortcomings inherent in SMD-based Commission organization, neither ANC has weighed in formally

## BZA proceedings
This case is being heard by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, which hears cases involving small zoning variance.

| agency | case | summary | next hearing | ANC status | case status |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [BZA](https://dcoz.dc.gov/bza/about) | [20927](https://app.dcoz.dc.gov/Home/ViewCase?case_id=20927) | Allow increase in density in RA-1 | 7/19/2023 | none taken; likely too late | no action yet |

Any increase in density in an RA-1 zone requires an exception of this type; there is no additional relief being sought beyond matter-of-right uses in an RA-1 zone.

## ANC proceedings

When a case is on the ANC boundary, both adjacent Commissions have "automatic party status" and their recommendations carry Great Weight.

While attempts were made in both Commissions to engage on project, and a presentation to ANC 5C did occur on July 12th (a special meeting convened in part due to this case and its hearing the next week), neither Commission passed a recommendation or report. The final reason for this, in the July ANC 5C meeting, was the relevant SMD Commissioner being absent (due to a medical emergency).

As a response, Commissioners from surrounding Commissions have a sign-on letter voicing some advocacy for more homes and less vehicle parking.

## Community Action
[Anyone can submit comments](https://dcoz.dc.gov/node/1211256) in support or opposition into the case record, to be considered by the BZA when judging the application. I would be happy to help regardless of your position, especially if you are a 5C05 resident, so feel free to reach out if you aren't sure what to write. You may also choose to speak at the hearing, but you will have to submit written comments either way.

### Submitting a Letter
To submit a letter:
- send before 9:30am **Tuesday 7/18/2023** to be sure it's received in time
- email it to **bzasubmissions@dc.gov**
- include the case number (`BZA 20927`) and address (`1015 Rhode Island Ave NE`) in the subject
- including some information about your proximity to the site, and/or residency within 5C05 if applicable, may help strengthen the weighing of your comments

A template to start might be:

> `Subject: ` Letter in (Support/Opposition) of BZA 20927, 1015 Rhode Island Ave NE

>To whom it may concern:
>
>This letter of (support/opposition) is in regard to Board of Zoning Adjustment case 20927, relief related to razing a detached home and building an eight-home building.
>
>I (do not) believe the BZA should allow this building to be constructed, because (reasons).
>
>Very respectfully,<br/>
>(your name)<br/>
>(your address)


*[ZC]: Zoning Commission
*[BZA]: Board of Zoning Adjustment
*[OP]: Office of Planning
*[FAR]: Floor Area Ratio
*[RPP]: Residential Parking Permit
*[IZ]: Inclusionary Zoning

<script>
var map = L.map('development-map',  {
      zoomSnap: 0.25
  }).setView([38.92268553103567, -76.99057023899174], 18.5);
  L.tileLayer('https://{s}.tile.openstreetmap.org/{z}/{x}/{y}.png', {
      maxZoom: 19,
      attribution: '© OpenStreetMap'
  }).addTo(map);

  var polygon = L.polygon([[38.92278091456224, -76.99071051322875], [38.92282302076293, -76.99056471638397], [38.922546322415386, -76.99041781501765], [38.922501638109, -76.99056361186241], [38.92278091456224, -76.99071051322875]], {color: 'red'}).addTo(map);
</script>
