---
title: "12/20/2023: 5B06/5C07 Joint SMD meeting"
permalink: /issues/20231220-jointmeeting/
excerpt: "a focused discussion with DDOT on RIA/Thayer"
author_profile: false
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/riathayer/from-northwest.jpg
  overlay_filter: rgba(127, 127, 127, 0.5)
  caption: "[1800 Hamlin St NE](/assets/images/ria-thayer/from-northwest.jpg)"
categories: meeting-summary
last_modified_at: 2024-01-13T21:17:53
notes: footnotes
---
This meeting has occurred; you can [view the video here](https://dcgovict-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/5c07_anc_dc_gov2/EcIFiZLKGftAjyNmRx4SJJIB_AJskanEbPOYZ2J-lmMDqA?nav=eyJyZWZlcnJhbEluZm8iOnsicmVmZXJyYWxBcHAiOiJTdHJlYW1XZWJBcHAiLCJyZWZlcnJhbFZpZXciOiJTaGFyZURpYWxvZy1MaW5rIiwicmVmZXJyYWxBcHBQbGF0Zm9ybSI6IldlYiIsInJlZmVycmFsTW9kZSI6InZpZXcifX0%3D&e=kUN5HB).
{: .notice--success}

## tl;dr
- Our **semi-monthly joint** ([5B06](https://anc5b06.com) and 5C07) **SMD meeting**.
- The special scheduling is to accomodate a DDOT ask to present to a meeting on RIA/Thayer
- The meeting will be entirely virtual

## Background
If these terms are confusing and/or you don't know if you live in 5B06 or 5C07, [visit the FAQ](/ancs/) or [the OpenANC map](https://openanc.org).
{: .notice--info}

**This is a joint meeting of SMDs 5B06 and 5C07** to be held on **12/20/2023** starting at 7pm. **The meeting will be all virtual** over Microsoft Teams.

Single-Member District meetings are:
- optional outreach efforts by Commissioners
- per cultural norms, a precondition to bring official actions to 5B and 5C
- a chance for Commissioners to discuss issues with their immediate constituents
- not a venue for any official actions
- more common in some parts of DC than others

### Why are these joint meetings?
Commissioner Piekara and I do joint meetings because our community is split down the center by the Commission boundary along Rhode Island Ave, the epicenter of our community's housing production, retail/commercial activity, and street safety issues. Most obligatory ANC casework in our SMDs is shared by ANCs 5B and 5C with both being affected/party ANCs; having a joint meeting provides cross-pollinated awareness of both Commission's activities and avoids redundant meetings on the same topics.

## Physical Location
There will be no physical location for December.

## Virtual Connection Details
The meeting will be available virtually on [Microsoft Teams](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/download-app).
### Join on your computer, mobile app or room device
- [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_YTJjOWU0ZjktMWU3Mi00YmE2LTkyYjUtYmUzYzJlMWE2NGUy%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%228fe449f1-8b94-4fb7-9906-6f939da82d73%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22fe41fa96-a564-4c7e-bcd4-e44346276d35%22%7d)
- **Meeting ID:** 223 651 184 26
- **Passcode:** yCndRL

### Notes for folks there virtually:
- Mind your mute and video-off buttons; opening access is consent to be recorded and made part of the meeting record

### Or call in (audio only)
- +1 206-420-0854,,955959030# (United States, Seattle)
- **Phone Conference ID:** 955 959 030#

## Agenda
Feel free to reach out if you have suggestions for this agenda! Given the informal nature of of SMD meetings, this agenda is flexible and may change anytime.

- DDOT presentation and Q&A on [RIA/Thayer](/issues/ria-thayer)
- (possible: applicant presentation on [2001 Rhode Island Ave NE](/issues/2001ria))
- public comments/questions

## Notification History
I can't guarantee perfect conveyence of information to every stakeholder on every occasion, but I do my best to both diversify outreach and log all of it for auditability. I'm also available through the contact methods on the footer of this webpage.

[![info posted around the intersection](/assets/images/riathayer/posted-flyer.jpg)](/assets/images/riathayer/posted-flyer.jpg)
<p class="caption">Information about RIA/Thayer and this meeting posted around the intersection</p>
<p/>
|method|outreach performed|
|---|---|
|routine scheduling|While this does not comport with the routine scheduling of fourth Wednesdays, it is taking the place of the routine Full-Commission meetings, which generally occur on Third Wednesdays for both 5B and 5C; both Commissions are in recess for December|
|website|This meeting information page was first posted to this website on 12/4/2023 around 10pm ET; it's also linked from the embedded (and subscribable) [5C07 calendar](/calendar/) and from [the 5C website](https://anc-5c.com/calendar/).|
|social media|I posted about RIA/Thayer and this meeting [on Twitter/X on 12/4](https://x.com/vj5c07/status/1731887270448210338) and [on 12/11](https://x.com/vj5c07/status/1734317685717008454), the [Brookland DC Facebook group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/brookand/posts/10160237867649121/), and on the [Woodridge DC Neighbors Facebook group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/woodridgedc/posts/1770385683435203/).|
|[direct email](https://us9.campaign-archive.com/home/?u=208f79fec14599c11c77bc927&id=150da6f8d6)|RIA/Thayer was the top topic on [my December newsletter](https://us9.campaign-archive.com/?u=208f79fec14599c11c77bc927&id=1e51de14e6), and I included the details about this meeting as well.|
|[paper flyer](/flyers/)|This issue and meeting are covered by my [December dispatch flyer](/assets/documents/flyer-20231207.pdf) as well as [purpose-made flyers for RIA/Thayer](/assets/documents/flyer-riathayer-20231211.pdf) that I included on the back of those, standalone, and posted around the intersection.|

*[SMD]: Single-Member District